OK.
Welcome back.
So far we've been focusing on navigating the command line moving through folders listing things finding
our current path.
Next we're going to focus on manipulating folders and files.
So we're going to learn how to do things like making new folders new files deleting things moving things
around renaming them all through the command line.
And we're going to start off here with a quick video on creating new directories from the command line.
So the magic command is M-K Diyar or make dear stance for sort of stands for make directory.
So M-K Diyar followed by the name of whatever you want the new directory to be called will make that
new directory in the current folder.
Current directory that you're in.
So for example if I have a folder called Stuff I want to make a new folder inside of it I can write
make dear cat pics and whatever name I provide there'll be a new directory with that name created inside
of stuff.
And if we did Alice after that we would see.
Now there's a cat pix folder.
Now if there's anything else in there it also show up.
But in this example stuff is empty until we add cat pics.
We can see into cat pics and now we've changed into our brand new directory.
We type PWT.
What should our path be.
SAS users slash call slash stuff slash cat pics.
And again depending on if for use using Cloud 9 or PC or Mac.
The beginning of this might be a bit different.
But really we're just focusing on the stuff that is unique to this slide.
And honestly that's pretty much all there is to make directory.
So let's try it out now.
I have a new window open in the home directory type LS And let's go to my desktop.
You can see it over here.
And the reason I'm going to use my desktop is that when a new directory is created you'll actually see
it show up over here as well.
So you know I'm not just tricking you.
So it's type LS.
I already have cat photos so let's make a new directory m k d DVR and I'll call this one.
Dog photos hit enter.
There it is.
It's kind of annoying that it's not aligned on the grid but if I type ls in my terminal there's now
a dog photos directory.
I can see into dog photos and I type ls.
There's nothing here of course.
Last thing I'll show you is that we can actually create more than one directory at a time.
So let's say instead of dog photos I want it to have photos of my dog Rusty and photos of my dog Wyatt
and I want to folders in there.
I could do rusty picks space.
Why it takes just like this.
If I hit enter it doesn't look like anything happened we don't get a message but if I type Ellis we
now have two directories and if I also open up dog photos you can see I have two new directories in
there.
So that's it for M-K D-I or make dear.
Hardest part about it is remembering the arbitrary letters m k d.
All right.
Next we'll see how to make files.